PC Engine (CD) / TurboGrafx-16 (-CD) / SuperGrafx guide (Mednaffe) (#20)
nchristopher/steamdeck-emulation: emulators/mednaffe.md

> # Mednaffe (Mednafen) guide

Reviewer: This should just be the emulator name.
```suggestion
# Mednaffe guide
```

 ❗ Follow the [Getting Started section](../README.md#getting-started) of `README.md` first.

This section of the guide explains how to setup [Mednaffe](https://github.com/AmatCoder/mednaffe), a front-end for [Mednafen](https://mednafen.github.io/), a multi-system emulator.

> <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/9209426/157373278-adeecff8-726d-414d-a599-5ac4fa143afb.png" title="" alt="A screenshot of Snes9x running Super Mario World" data-align="inline">

Reviewer: Use markdown syntax instead.
```suggestion
![A screenshot of Mednaffe running Ginga Fukei Densetsu Sapphire](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/9209426/157373278-adeecff8-726d-414d-a599-5ac4fa143afb.png)
```

## Installing Mednaffe

Open Discover, SteamOS' app store, then search for **Mednaffe**, then click on it.

![Discover](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/9209426/157377104-dfa105bb-d82c-401a-bb7d-d5590585c2cc.png)

In the top right, select **Sources**, then **Flatpak**, then press **Install**.

Alternatively, open up a terminal and run

```
flatpak install --user -y com.github.AmatCoder.mednaffe
```

## Configuring Mednaffe

### Issues with sound

Open up the emulator, then navigate to **Global Settings > Sound**. Make sure `Enable sound output` is ticked, and that `Driver` is set to `sdl`, otherwise you won't get any sound. 

### Input mapping

> Switch to the **Systems** tab and there, for each system, you have an **Input** sub-tab to map various controllers as you wish. Assuming you launched the emulator from within Desktop mode, you'll need to have Steam launched beforehand to map Steam Deck inputs properly (otherwise it won't be recognized as a controller).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Switch to the **Systems** tab. For each system, you can map various controllers under the **Input** sub-tab. In Desktop mode, you'll need to launch Steam before mapping Steam Deck inputs properly, otherwise it won't be recognized as a controller.
```

![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/9209426/157373743-a198fc69-7eeb-43e4-b091-484ad9dfb1ec.png)

<u>NB</u>: The `Input device` here refers to the corresponding system's controller, not what you're using.

### <u>Optional</u>: Graphics tweaking

From the same **Systems** tab, you can access a **Graphics** sub-tab for each system, in which I'd recommend making the following changes:

* In **Fullscreen**, set `Stretch to fill screen` to `aspect`, otherwise by default the output will be integer-scaled (to the nearest multiple of 2), so it won't fill your Steam Deck's screen.

* This one is quite personal, but making changes to either the **Scaler/Filter** or **Shader** tabs might suit you, if you're looking for a specific feel. My recommended setting would be `autoipsharper` for `OpenGL shader` in **Shader**, but you might want to tweak and read [Mednafen's documentation](https://mednafen.github.io/documentation/).

### <u>Optional</u>: CD BIOS

> You will need to get `syscard3.pce` (BIOS) for PC Engine CD / TurboGrafx-CD emulation and set the correct path in the **Systems > Emulation** tab (`CD BIOS`).

Author: There's unfortunately no easy way to dump this file, however it is easy to find (RetroPie has a [pretty good summary](https://retropie.org.uk/docs/PC-Engine/#bios) with MD5/CRC32 for those, for instance).

> You will need to get `syscard3.pce` (BIOS) for PC Engine CD / TurboGrafx-CD emulation and set the correct path in the **Systems > Emulation** tab (`CD BIOS`).

Reviewer: Are those files copyrighted, or are they generated in another way? I'd prefer to not link to copyrighted material if possible.

> You will need to get `syscard3.pce` (BIOS) for PC Engine CD / TurboGrafx-CD emulation and set the correct path in the **Systems > Emulation** tab (`CD BIOS`).

Author: I'm not sure how they were retrieved or generated, so it might be best to simply mention it without providing any links to it?

> You will need to get `syscard3.pce` (BIOS) for PC Engine CD / TurboGrafx-CD emulation and set the correct path in the **Systems > Emulation** tab (`CD BIOS`).

Reviewer: I think it should be fine.
